# Research Backgorund

The defining characteristic of Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) is intense fear or anxiety towards social situations where the individual may be exposed to scrutiny or negative evaluation by others (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). It is a highly prevalent disorder among the population, and it is considered as second most common DSM-IV disorder (Kessler et al., 2005). The median life prevalence and 12 months prevalence of SAD in Europe is 6.65% and %2, respectively (Fehm et al., 2005). Additionally, according to the National Comorbidity Survey Replication among adults in the USA between 2001-2003, the estimated lifetime and 12-month prevalence of social phobia are 12.1% and 7.1% respectively (Ruscio et al., 2008).
 
Common social scenarios that might trigger anxiety encompass situations like encountering unfamiliar individuals, talking in meetings or gatherings, starting conversations, interacting with people in positions of power, working, eating food or beverages in the presence of others, appearing in public and engaging in public speaking (NICE, 2013). Social anxiety is experienced by individuals along a spectrum (Rapee & Spence, 2004). Many young individuals report higher symptoms of social anxiety (Fehm et al., 2005). When the fears interfere with individual’s daily life and cause distress, it creates substantial difficulties in their functioning and may indicate the presence of the psychological disorder of SAD (APA, 2013). Recent studies have confirmed the relatively high prevalence of subclinical social anxiety symptoms among young people (Knappe et al., 2011, Rapee & Spence, 2004), which is indication of the need for further understanding of the assessment of the disorder.
 
 EEG is the method for recording the electrical changes in the group of neurons from the surface of the scalp (Kappenman & Luck, 2011) and it is effective on investigating the neural correlates of social anxiety. There are different EEG measures that can assess the biomarker of the SAD including Event-Related Potentials (ERPs) and Frontal Alpha Asymmetry. They collectively provide insights into the neural underpinnings of SAD by examining by heightened emotional response to social stimuli, attention allocation and emotion regulation. ERP refers to changes in voltage observed in continuous EEG recording, and these changes are time- and phase-locked with specific events, like the beginning of a stimulus or the response to a task (Kappenman & Luck, 2011). P1 and N170 components in ERP are associated with early stages of face processing and in various research they investigated as a response to faces. P1 component in ERP is typically appears after 100 milliseconds after the presentation of visual stimulus (Kappenman & Luck, 2011). It is related to early visual processing, and it is attention sensitive (Luck et al., 2000). The level of the attention an individual gives to the stimulus (Mangun, 1995), individual’s affective emotional judgement about the faces whether they find them favourable or unfavourable (Pizagalli et al., 1999) can result differences in the amplitude of the signal and the latency of the signal. Studies stated individuals with SAD displayed increased P1 amplitude for emotional faces (Kolassa et al., 2009) and emotional expressions (Kolassa et al., 2007) compared to neutral ones. Additionally, studies state  that P1 component is sensitive to threat and non-threat stimuli. Stimuli perceived as threatening to individuals prone to anxiety results in differentiations in P1 (Meynadasy et al., 2019).
 
The N170 component in ERP typically appears 170 milliseconds after the presentation of a visual stimulus. It is a face-specific ERP component, it is responsive to faces and mostly used in research focusing on face perception. There is contradictory previous literature about the association between N170 and emotional facial expressions that are not specific to SAD. Some studies resulted in an amplitude change for emotional facial expressions compared to neutral facial expressions (Aarts et al., 2012; Almeida et al., 2014; Bediou et al., 2009; Jiag et al., 2014; Lee et al., 2007; Yuan et al., 2014). In addition, a meta-analysis resulted in N170 being sensitive to emotional facial expressions. Anger, fear, and happy faces result in the greatest N170 amplitudes (Hinojosa et al., 2015). For studies focused on SAD, most of the studies revealed that there is no difference between the amplitudes of N170 for emotional faces and neutral faces for SAD compared to control group (Kolassa et al., 2007; Kolassa et al., 2009; Pechard et al., 2013). Contradictorily, one study revealed an increased N170 amplitude in the Stroop task for identifying angry faces (Kolassa & Miltner, 2006), and another study revealed that individuals with SAD exhibit decreased N170 amplitude for emotional facial expressions in the dot probe task (Mueller et al., 2009). Analysing N170 can show how individuals with SAD are sensitive to facial expressions that convey social information.
 
P2 and P3 are late ERP components, and they appear approximately 150-250 milliseconds and 300-500 milliseconds, respectively after the stimulus presentation (Luck, 2005; Polich, 2007). P2 component is related to selective attention and stimulus salience. Individuals with SAD tend to shift their attention towards social threats or possible negative evaluations about themselves and in social situations (Clark & Well, 1995), they tend to increase anxiety related thoughts and attentional biases which causes greater attention on negative stimulus (Matthews & Wells, 1996). Additionally, the P3 component is associated with social feedback. When the feedback evaluation is assessed, P3 represents the motivational significance of the feedback to an individual and their motivation to participate in social situations (Langston &Cantor, 1989). Increase in P3 component is related to attentional processes (Polich 2007), working load (Wang et al., 2015) and decision-making process (Rohrbaugh et al., 1974).  The P2 and P3 components are associated with difference in brain processes of SAD, and they do not represent early perceptual processes. Early ERP (such as N170 and P1) components provide more information about early perceptual processes in SAD.
 
Embodied cognition proposes that there is an integration between sensory and motor systems with cognitive processing and this concept is relevant when examining social anxiety symptoms (Mulder et al., 2017). Since embodied cognition states that cognitive and affective processes are embedded and develop from the interaction with people and the environment, social anxiety is also contextually embedded because it emerges when an individual interacts with the social environment and experiences negative emotions (Gelenberg, 2000). There are several previous research regarding the EEG measurements and whether they are biomarkers of social anxiety (Kolassa et al., 2009; Kolassa et al., 2007; Peschard et al., 2013; Kolassa & Miltner et al.; 2006, Mueller et al., 2009). However, previous literature has some limitations such as there is contradictory results in terms of EEG measures and assessment of social anxiety. In addition to that, due to the different aims of the research or technical limitations, there is a lack of research assessing social anxiety during realistic social interactions. As social anxiety is contextually embedded and emerges in social interaction, research assessing social anxiety should focus on this “social interaction” aspect. The main objective of the current research is to investigate face and body perception during social interaction and assess social anxiety according to individual’s neural and behaviour responses for different social interactions.


